.TH SUMC 1
.SH NAME
sumc \- SUMMER compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sumc
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sumc
compiles the SUMMER program residing on
.I file
and produces an executable
.I a.out
file, provided that the source program does not contain any syntax errors.
.I File
may end on the filename extension
.I .sm
or not.
In the latter case that extension is appended to
.I file.
.PP
The resulting
.I a.out
file recognizes the following options:
.TP
.B \-p
Produces an execution time profile of the program.
.TP
.B \-c
Produces a symbolic procedure call trace of the program.
.TP
.B \-t
Invokes an interactive program tracer, which allows setting of breakpoints
in the program, inspecting values of program variables and the like.
Note that the interactive tracer is
.I also
invoked if the SUMMER program is interrupt during execution.
As a consequence, the use of the tracer need not be planned in advance.
.TP
.BI \-m N
Set the initial memory size to
.I N
words.
(The SUMMER system requests memory automatically, but this option may increase
the execution speed of some programs).
.TP
.BI \-s N
Set the size of the SUMMER runtime stack to
.I N
words. The default size of the stack is 1000 words.
.LP
.SH FILES
file.sm		source file
.br
file.s		intermediate file
.br
file.o		intermediate file
.br
a.out		object program
.SH SEE ALSO
P. Klint, An overview of the SUMMER programming language,
Conference Record of the 7th ACM Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages,
Las Vegas, january, 1980.
.sp 1
Summer reference manual (in preparation)
.sp 1
The SUMMER interactive tracer.
.SH BUGS
The interactive tracer is still weak.
.sp 1
Linenumbers in error messages and tracer output be inaccurate.
